hello everyone its Elina and today I'll
be sharing with you guys my tips for
getting a 7 in history or nose of you
guys who don't know what I just
graduated from an Ivy School well just
graduated it's maybe a little bit of an
understatement like 4 months ago but I
got a 7 in history and I thought I'd
share with you guys what I did in order
to get that great my first tip is to
follow two Bibles now you're probably
thinking like what this is not religious
studies no I don't mean the Bible I mean
the Bible's that a teacher wrote for
students who are studying history HL or
SL so what exactly are these ok so my
teacher actually wrote these Bibles and
I have both of them the link below so
they're just called like the paper 1
Bible and the paper 2 and free Bible and
basically what they do is they give you
an instruction on how to write these
papers and if you follow these Bibles
you will definitely score high on your
papers so like this teacher just broke
everything down and basically what it
does is it tells you how to structure
your answers it tells you what you
should include how you should write it
how much you should write per question
and it is just so useful so if you don't
exactly know how to score high on these
papers just check out the Bible's they
are super useful and I would highly
recommend really studying these Bibles
and actually knowing by heart what to do
in these papers they even tell you how
much time you should spend on different
questions so if you want to go into an
exam being really prepared and knowing
how to ace that exam the Bibles are your
new best friends my second tip is to
really make history a priority I think
this is really really important and a
lot of people actually forget about that
so what I would recommend is write down
all your subjects and then allocate how
much hours you're gonna spend on these
in a given week and this is really
important and then also keep in mind
which ones are you standard level
subjects which ones are your higher
level subjects which subjects are easier
for you which ones are harder for you
and even if history is a little bit
easier for you you should still spend
more time on it than you spend on any of
your sl's
because after all it is a higher level
subject for you so you should spend more
time on it and if you are done earlier
with something then just use the given
time that you still have in order to
study for the subject especially for
history
it's really important that you make
study notes and that's why you need a
lot of time over the week in order to
write down your notes because if you
think you're gonna write all your notes
during your study leave in your second
year well that is not gonna happen
because you cannot write down like 300
years of history in different countries
in like two weeks
and still learn it and prepare for your
other five subjects that's just not
gonna work so don't count on those two
weeks of study leave if you even get two
weeks so better prepare in order to not
having to write any of your notes during
study leave that is really a relief so
do that and regarding how much time you
should allocate to history in a week I
can't give you like a given amount that
you can study for and you're gonna have
a seven because everybody's a little bit
different and everybody has a different
skill level in history so I can't
exactly say how much you need to do but
I think you need to do at least five
hours a week and that's like a bare
minimum if you're studying history HL
but you're probably going to have to do
more but that really also depends on
your history teacher and how much
homework they give because if they just
give you like tons of homework you
always have to allocate more hours to it
because you also need to write your
study notes and talking about study
notes it is also really really important
that you actually have a plan of which
units of the course you have already
written your notes for and which ones
you still need to do them for because
you don't want to be a person that sits
there study leaving it's like okay so I
have like a bunch of notes and I guess
they cover the entire syllabus but I
don't really know because that is not a
good idea because you don't want to open
up your example and be like I have never
even heard of this topic because I did
not study it that is just terrible so
what you should do is you should print
out your entire syllabus and then just
you know use a highlighter and highlight
every part of the syllabus where you
already have notes on and if your entire
syllabus is highlighted then you've done
your job and all your study notes are
done if you don't know which parts of
the history syllabus your class is
studying
talk to your teacher they should be able
to give you the entire outline of the
syllabus points that you are studying
and you really need to study all of them
for history because the papers can be on
literally any of these bullet points in
the syllabus and you are not going to
have endless options in these papers so
make sure that you really know which
points you have to study and if you
study them all don't think you can
outsmart the eye
you'd be like oh that topic was on the
paper like five times so it's not going
to be there for a sixth time no don't
take too risk it's your final exam you
do not want to be in the exam be like
damn I really got this wrong
because that would not be great now my
next tip is to have historiography for
all your bullet points now you're
probably thinking like wait I'm supposed
to remember all these dates and
historiography for all of it like no
don't worry here's what you do you need
to know which historians wrote on which
topic and don't just take like a super
random historian that no one ever heard
of pick like you know the more famous
ones on the issues so if you're for
example studying Nazi Germany you
probably want to name-drop Goldhagen
somewhere in there because well he's a
really famous historian on the topic but
now you're probably thinking well I
cannot remember quotations on all of
that so first of all you don't need to
quote the historians okay it's enough if
you paraphrase and if you just have
their opinion and what is really great
is if you know where there are areas of
debate and if you have historians from
the different groups and you can explain
so for example storing a things that
this was the main cause of that civil
war whereas historian being argues that
this factor was actually more
significant for you outbreak of the war
now one thing when it comes to
historiography that a lot of students do
is they name drop schools of thought
like revisionism and the Orthodox school
of thought and whatever and they
actually have no clue what it means now
you can totally do that not the thing
with not knowing what it means but you
know saying well there is an Orthodox
school thought regarding this event and
here is what they argue so sometimes you
actually don't need to know a particular
historian it's enough if you know what
school of thought things about that and
so for example you can then compare
Orthodox school of thought versus
revisionist school of thought on a
particular event if you know what they
actually think of that event great but
don't just name drop these things if you
have no clue what they mean because your
examiner is going to retail and it's
going to be like what the hell did this
student do this is just a mess and then
your historiography doesn't get you
bonus points it actually makes your
examiner a lot more suspicious of your
essay and they are more inclined to
double-check
everything you wrote okay my next tip is
to do practice papers and to do a lot of
them actually to do as many as you can
now for history during practice papers
can actually be quite hard because the
papers are really long and you don't
just want to know sit down for a few
hours and bite a few essays it just
takes way too much time out of your week
and it is just not doable so how do you
revise easily but still keep everything
in mind and you know get better skills
for essay writing I would highly
recommend writing outlines just the
outline for an essay and then take a
look at it and think about is his
argument solid do I have historiography
in there is my introduction good but
short do I have a solid conclusion and
stuff like that and reveal outlines in
mind then going into your exam you
actually know how to plan because a lot
of students actually struggle if the
planning part because you don't want to
sit there and plan for like 20 minutes
and I realized oh my god I actually only
have 25 minutes for my essay that is
just not great so you really need to
learn how to plan in like five minutes
so you know take your phone put on a
timer for five minutes
and plan so if you just write two
outlines a week and you just do that for
like 10 minutes then you know at the end
of the year you're actually going to be
like the best and writing outlines
because you have timed yourself every
time and you will write a super fast
outline that's going to be really solid
and that's the perfect game plan for an
essay so you know it really starts with
the outline if your outline is crap your
essay is going to be crap now my last
tip concerns one thing that is graded in
history HL where every student should
theoretically get a 7 on what am I
talking about the internal assessment
because you have literally two years to
write that internal assessment that is
like 2200 words long and you know to
balance wonder where it sounds like a
lot but when you start writing it you're
actually like whoa this is really short
so yeah it's not that hard to write it
and research it and you know you can
write it on literally any topic so just
write it on something you're actually
interested in and you are good to go now
why do I think everybody should get a
seven on this well because you have two
years time for it you're not under time
pressure you can have 20 people
proofread it you know you can do your
research over the summer you can
literally take six weeks just to write
that internal assessment so why are you
now taking that time maybe if my peers
to try writing dear ia in like a day and
I'm like well hello you know like why
are you doing this like you had so much
time for it so if you're in history HL
student I would recommend you know
taking even just a week out of your
summer like a week is actually already a
lot to write that internal assessment
you know so you go to the library for
like three days and you read a lot of
books on your paper you maybe want to
visit an archive and then you write down
everything from your research then when
you have your information you write an
outline and then you just write it like
doing an ia is actually not that hard
it's just like a massive paper - or
paper free but many students just think
well I'm gonna do it some other time and
you know they just let time pass and
procrastinate and then in the end of the
day you're like oh my god time's running
out the deadlines like tomorrow and then
your ia is not going to be great but
your I and you can actually be your
Saviour because if you mess up on one of
the papers and your finals but your ia
is a seven it can actually still pull
you up and you can still get a seven in
history so treat that ia as something
that is actually there to help you now
if you're like okay okay so I have my
time plan here for my ia and I really
have enough time to write it but I don't
know how to write it well don't worry I
got you I wrote you guys a little guide
on how to write a perfect ia actually
used a lot of you advised that my
teacher gave me because I think he just
gave me amazing advice for dia and I
thought I'd share some of that with you
guys but you know if there's anything
you're unclear about about the ia it's
also really important that you talk to
your teacher because the teacher is
supposed to supervise you on it you know
if you have a great teacher who already
gives you a lot of guidance really make
use of it because it can help so much
when there's someone who's experienced
with grading is who then gives you
feedback on your first draft but also
before you hand in your first draft get
some of your peers to read for your ia
and give you some feedback because while
your peers may not catch what makes you
score high on the criteria off the IV
they will definitely catch some grammar
mistakes and things where you you
were being very clear in that paragraph
and your readers just like what the hell
is she trying to argue there so they can
really help with these little things so
that your first drop is actually already
a little bit better then your actually
original first draft was when you hand
it in to your teacher and that's always
great because then your teacher can give
you more sophisticated feedback
doesn't have to be just like well honey
like try writing some commas in those
sentences it would really help you know
because that's feedback that your peers
could have just given you and you didn't
need to waste your teachers time on it
and if you waste your teachers time on
it your teacher is less likely to look
at things like the actual content of
your ia
so yeah those are all my tips we're
getting a seven in history HL and the IV
I hope this helps some of you guys and
you guys any questions about the history
course feel free to drop them in the
comments below or just message me for
the contact section of my blog which is
linked in the infobox below thank you
guys so much for watching bye